Hi friends
In this video we're going to discuss the need of
loops in C
So to really understand the need of Loops
Let's assume a situation where we need to print good
morning 10 times
So what can we do? One thing we can do
is write 10 printf statements separately to print each
good morning like this so the output will be good
morning printed 10 times
Now it's fine because 10 is a small number
But what if we want to print it 100 times
Oh maybe 1000 times? it's impractical to write the same
statements again and again So this is not a great
solution
So what is the real solution to this issue? The
real solution is looping statements
Instead of printing it N times we can use looping
statements looping statement allows us to execute a block of
code repeatedly until the given condition is true and when the
condition becomes false
It will stop executing the statements
We can easily remember loops using this
See we have loop energy run so as long as
the person has energy he will run and when he
doesn't have energy he'll stop running further
So this is exactly how loops also work
It will execute a block of code as long as
the given condition is true and here the condition is
having energy and the block of code is run.
In C we have different kinds of loops
We have the for loop, we have the while loop
and we have the do while loop and will be discussing
each in the coming lessons So that's all and thank you for watching this video.